Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
A programming language is a special language programmers use to develop software programs,
scripts, or other sets of instructions for computers to execute.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
Java Development Kit

What is IDE?
A. An integrated development environment(IDE)is a software suite that consolidates
basic tools required to write and test software.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
ans: NetBeans,Eclipse, intellij,Android Studio drJava, JDeveloper, JSource
Explain the entire java life cycle.
what is class?
ans: Class is blue Print object of .
What is object?
ans: An object is an instance of a class.
What is the entry point of an application?
public static void main(String[]args).
Why main is static?
ans: Main method in Java is entry point for any core Java program
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans: java.lang.Object is a super class of any class by default.
     Also Object class is a superclass for all interfaces by default
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans:Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Abstract class and interface both are used to achieve abstraction where we can declare the abstract methods.
Abstract class and interface both can't be instantiated.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not
what is Access Specifier?
 Ans:1) private
2) default (when no access specifier is specified)
3) protected
4) public

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.

Ans: Object Oriented Programming

1)Abstraction
2)Encapsulation
3)Inheritance
4)Polymorphism

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans:A package organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. java.lang package is imported by default, no need to
explicitly import it. Classes in the java.lang package do not need to be imported (the compiler acts like they are
always imported).


What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.

Ans:API stands for Application Programming Interface. Java application programming interface (API) is a list of all classes
    that are part of the Java development kit (JDK). It includes all Java packages, classes, and interfaces, along with
    their methods, fields, and constructors. These prewritten classes provide a tremendous amount of functionality to a
    programmer.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?

Ans: No
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans:Method overloading is when you have the same method name but with multiple arguments inside the parameters. It happens
    during compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
ans:When an error occurs within a method, the method creates an object and hands it off to the runtime system.  The object,
called an exception object, contains information about the error,
including its type and the state of the program when the error occurred.
Creating an exception object and handing it to the runtime system is called throwing an exception. 
The Exceptions are handled using try and catch method 

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans:
Static keyword that are used for sharing the same variable or method of a given class.
  Static variable:
  1-It's a variable that's associated with a class and not with the object of the class. 
  2-Static variables are initialized only once. 
  Static Method:
  1- A static method belongs to the class rather than object of a class. 
  2- A static method can be invoked without the need for creating an instance of a class. 
  3- Static method can access static data member and can change the value of it.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans:Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable.
Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden, and final variable value can't be changed.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans:Final  - Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. Final class can't be inherited,
            final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. (Final is a keyword)

        Finally - Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
            (Finally is a block)

        Finalize - Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
            (Finally is a method)

What is a constructor ?
ans: Constructor is used to initialize an object. A class can have multiple constructor.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans:Yes as long as the parameter are different
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans:Default constructors
What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans:this keyword refers to current object
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans:"Super" keyword is used to call the constructor, methods and properties of a parent class. 
    super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. 
    super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method. 
    super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.  
What is JVM stand for ?
Ans:Java Virtual Machine
Is JVM platform independent?
Ans: yes
What version of java are you using?
1.8
What is JAR stand for ?
Ans:Java Archive is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files
and associated metadata and resources (text, images, etc.) into one file for distribution.
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans:JDK is Java Development Kit which include JVM,JRE
    JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans:
JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide runtime environment.It is the
implementation of JVM.It physically exists.It contains set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at runtime.
JDK is an acronym for Java Development Kit.It physically exists.It contains JRE + development tools.

What is compile time and run time?
Ans:When an application is running, it is called runtime.  The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become an executable program, this is referred to as compile time.  

What is heap?
Ans:Heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.
How java manage it's memory?
Ans:Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase
    or decrease  in size while the application runs.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans:Once a String object is created it cannot be changed .
    StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object.
     StringBuilder allows manipulating character sequences by appending, deleting and inserting characters and strings.  


What is Singleton class?
Ans:Singleton class is to control object creation by keeping private constructor

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans:Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes
    which can be persisted to a disk or  database or can be sent through streams.
    The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization 

when to use transient variable in java?
Ans:when to use transient variable in java?
    Java transient keyword is used in serialization. If you define any data member as transient, it will not be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans:In "while" loops, test expression is checked at first but
    in "do...while" loop code is executed at first then the condition is checked.
    So, the code are executed at least once in do...while loops.

What is Enum?
 Ans:Enum is a set of fixed variables.

What is Iterator?
An iterator is an object that enables a programmer to traverse a container.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans:int and Integer both represents same number of values.
Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans:Because java uses the concept of string literal. For example there are 5 reference variables,
    all refers to one object "arif”. If one reference variable changes the value of the object,
    it will be affected to all the reference variables. That is why string objects are immutable in java.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans: Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Ans: Serial Collector is mostly designed for single-threaded environments. 
     Parallel Garbage Collector is used for multi-threaded environments 
What is JIT stands for?
Ans: Just In Time
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans:Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or
    decrease in size while the application runs. -Garbage collection is the process of looking at heap memory,
    identifying which objects are in use and which are not and deleting the unused objects. 

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Ans: No
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans:When an object is created its stored in the heap 
    Stack creates a memory to the created object
     Stack is used for static

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Ans: Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program to
     examine or "introspect" upon itself and manipulate internal properties of the program.
     Java Reflection is quite powerful and can be very useful. Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect
     classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc.

what is multithreading in java?
Ans: Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. A thread is a lightweight
     sub-process, the smallest unit of processing. Multiprocessing and multithreading, both are used to
     achieve multitasking.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Ans:Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with
    multiple threads in Java. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized
    method which requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.


What is Framework?
Ans: Frameworks generally refer to broad software development platforms
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Ans: junit and testng
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Ans:In juniit methods have to be declared as static. TestNG does not have this constraint.
What are the dependencies for this project?
Ans:gson, java-json, mongo-java-driver, mysql-connector and testng
what is dependency injection in java?
Ans:The general concept behind dependency injection is called Inversion of Control. According to this concept a
    class should not configure its dependencies statically but should be configured from the outside.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Ans: Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.









